# Exercise 2

### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

   [Link to sketch here]()

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).  

   I observed that the heap grew. The second malloc's address was greater than the first.

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.

   I observed that the stack grew down. The address of the local variable's address is less than the address for var2 in the main function.

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

  When I set the malloc() to 32, there was a difference of 30 bytes. I also ran other malloc() tests and got a difference of 20 bytes for all
  values less than 20.


### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

    In the main function, you are initializing i as an integer and array as an integer pointer. The array pointer is pointing to an integer pointer, the foo function, for a local variable array. Then you call the bar function it has no effect on the output. Finally you run a for
    loop to update the array pointer. If the function works properly, the new array should match the array returned from the bar function.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

    Warning:
      stack.c: In function ‘foo’:
      stack.c:22:12: warning: function returns address of local variable [-Wreturn-local-addr]
           return array;
                  ^~~~~
    There is a warning because the information from the local variable which disappear once that stack frame runs and the next is called.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

    Output:
      0x7ffc6c3ba020
      0x7ffc6c3ba020
      Segmentation fault (core dumped)

    The segmentation fault occurs because of a type mismatch. The mismatch occurs because you are trying to assign an integer pointer to a NULL.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?
    Output:
      Segmentation fault (core dumped)
    You no longer see the address of the array, but you still see the same error.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Adder

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use their functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
